how to convert your leads into sales
with these five crm features if you've
been in business for a long enough you
know that sales are one of the key
drivers to growth and you can't even
stay afloat without sales no matter if
you're selling products or services you
need good sales process for your
business to survive and thrive and the
key word here is the process if you
don't have the right process you're not
going to ever have your sales machine
fine-tuned if your sales team no matter
how big it or small it is if it needs
redundant tasks that you need to
continually do each and every single day
like filling out spreadsheets and
manually scheduling calls with prospects
you're missing out on a huge opportunity
from the moment you have a new lead in
your pipeline two the moment you close
the sale you need to have your sales
process nailed to the t and automate as
much as you can so that way you can
generate the most revenue per individual
now before i dive in on how you can
maximize your sales i want to let you
know that this video is by pipedrive and
is sponsored by them and funny enough
even if they didn't sponsor it i've used
pipedrive for so many years i would have
mentioned them in this video anyways
so let's dive right in i have an ad
agency and in my ad agency it's spread
throughout the world we have dozens of
people working in sales in many
different countries heck if i had a
guest we probably have close to 100
sales reps globally literally we're
probably getting close to 100 sales up
globally just in my smb division at npa
i think we have 48 sales reps and we're
trying to hire another 12 or 13.
and if there's one thing that's allowed
my business to grow from nothing in 2018
to one of the fastest growing companies
in 2021 according to inc magazine in the
united states we are number 21.
it is sales
my teams know exactly what to do at each
stage of the sales process and we rely
primarily on one tool to help us
streamline that and that is our crm
research by nucleus in 2011 shows that
average return investment on crm is
eight dollars and 71 cents for each
dollar spent that's massive that's
almost 11 years ago when crm was used by
just a handful of enterprise companies
plus the crm solutions back then weren't
as good as they are now so you should
expect that a crm helps you even more
now than it did back then because they
have so many more features to streamline
and automate your sales
now the industry has matured so much to
extent that you can pretty much
streamline and automate most your sales
process which means
that your roi should if i had to take a
guess be double that
today i'm gonna walk you through five
key crm features that allow you to
convert your leads into sales in the
most efficient way possible i'm also
recommending pipedrive as your go-to
solution for all the features that i'm
going to show you as that's the system
that we use in some of our companies and
i see my sales reps data from all my
local and international teams in one
platform which make things simple
there are essentially five things that
you need to look at when choosing a crm
pipelines you need a way to visualize
your entire sales process and how deals
are moving from stage one to stage two
to stage three etc until they close heck
even until they upsell and you can only
get more money out of that customer
two
automations your sales process may be
very good at converting leads but if
most your sales activities are done
manual you won't be able to scale
and people are more expensive now than
they ever have been especially since a
great resignation so you want to make
sure that you automate as much as
possible so that way your people
are the most efficient they can spend
most their time selling and closing
deals
three
lead management across all your digital
touch points with clients you need to
make sure that you capture leads through
live chat web forms chat bots and every
single way that you can imagine and make
sure that it integrates within your
sales process four reporting as a
business owner you gotta know your
numbers and if you have to scramble
through a few different platforms in
order to know what you need you're in
trouble five integration
if your crm is in a silo that doesn't
communicate with other platforms you use
in your business such as zoom calls or
slack for team communication or even
asana for task management you're missing
out on efficiency and productivity
so let's go over them one by one
pipelines having pipelines help you map
out different stages of your existing
sales process and move leads to each
stage the more important thing is that
your sales team is focused on the
actions that they need to take in order
to keep moving the leads through the
pipeline pipedrive allows you to develop
a clear understanding of your sales
momentum and priorities and refocus your
efforts accordingly in pipedrive you can
add deals assign the monetary value
win probability and expected close date
beyond that you'll be able to organize
and track your pipeline by stages
you can customize the stages to suit
your sales cycle create team pipelines
and even filter results by rep or stage
and have one for each member in other
words you can slice and dice your data
any way you want and even color code
different things so that way different
deals draw more attention and stand out
and as for automation your sales team
shouldn't be spending too much time on
repetitive tasks things like sending
emails to leads or scheduling follow-up
activities one by one or even assigning
statuses can become a big time sync with
pipedrive you can automate a few
critical tasks that'll make a real
difference in your team you can send
personalized emails automatically
pipedriver will also use the information
you add to your leads to automatically
personalize the interactions that you
have with them by email and you can
automate repetitive sales tasks when a
lead moves through your pipeline you can
automatically create and schedule
activities like sales calls email
follow-ups and even propose writing with
tools like sales docs which is part of
pipedrive and external tools like better
proposals
you can be reminded about critical sales
activities and doing the admin work of
scheduling your sales related tasks can
be time consuming and you can even make
some bad mistakes pipedrive can send you
reminders of all the important things
that you need to do with each lead so
that you can focus on the actions you
need in order to close a deal
now let's dive into lead management
pipedrive has a suite of tools and
functionality to help you manage your
leads you have a centralized leads inbox
that helps you declutter your crm and
improve your pre-sales communications
with prospects once a lead is qualified
you can easily convert it to a deal and
move it to your pipeline when it comes
to lead generation pipedrive offers two
of the best lead generation methods that
i've known today web forms allows you to
collect leads from your website traffic
and import them into your pipeline your
contacts or your leads inbox it's your
choice
you'll also receive an email
notification so that you can follow up
with the lead while they're still hot
and that's the key you want to follow up
as quickly as they come in now
pipedrive's live chat and chatbot will
help visitors
with a high purchase intent by engaging
them through a live conversation the
chatbot can be customized to ask and
answer specific questions reply with
specific messages and even pre-qualified
leads that come through your website the
live chat will assign chats to your
sales reps right away if the chatbot
considers that lead to be qualified now
when you want to talk about reporting
just having data about your sales isn't
enough you got to be able to extract
valuable insights from your data you'll
want to understand which products are
driving the most results
why your closing rates falter and even
identify winning secrets from your top
sales reps pipedrive reporting is
focused on translating your data into
actionable insights you can customize
your report to meet the needs of your
business do revenue forecasting and set
goals to measure your performance
against now marketplace is one of the
coolest things about pipedrive it's the
fact that integrates with a lot of other
apps that you may be using in your
workflow you can expand the capabilities
of your pipedrive account by adding apps
that connect with other popular services
like slack or trello or zapier or even
gmail so the takeaway for you
for salespeople a crm is a fantastic
asset and helping to follow up on leads
and a crm platform will allow you to
monitor your client records keep track
of multiple conversations and process
follow-ups pipedrive will give you the
best features and capability that you
need from a crm in a super easy to use
interface and pretty much automate all
the lower value activities for you so
that your team can focus on closing